>> Ben Hong: This is something we
should all be really familiar with.
But when it comes to growing as a VUE
developer, a lot of times most of us
are not so lucky as to inherit
a brand new code base, right?
We usually have things that we're
working with that are brand new, or
more importantly, you know,
managers want us to ship quickly, so
we bring in third party libraries and
we wrap stuff up.
But there is a question of how we
properly manage those dependencies,
because any of us who've done this long
enough knows that redesigns often happen.
And so having to rip out internals and
refactor things is
something that's common.
And so what are some techniques we can do
to kind of manage this particular problem?
All right, so let's go and
take a look at the code that we have so
inside of our app.
Again, this is with our
standard Vue 3 app.
We're using Vue 3 router here.
You'll notice here that
we have a lot going on.
Basically, we're using Daisy UI
from a tailwind perspective.
So, that's the UI library being used.
And one of the things that's
being used a lot, and
one that I think we can all share as a
common pain point, is this icon component.
This is from Daisy ui.
In fact, this is from Iconify.
So if we look at the number
of instances of icon,
you can see that it's actually used.
Well, it's used quite a lot.
So this might not seem like a big
deal at first, but as we know,
design requirements do change and
oftentimes they'll come in and
they'll want a random one off, or
they'll want something changed about it.
And so the question boils around, how
do we actually manage those changes and
requests?
So let's say, for instance,
that a designer has discovered this
amazing resource which, if you are not
aware of, you should also be aware of.
And it's called icons.js.org
it's basically this
collection of free icons across
a lot of different ones.
So, for example,
if I want to look up like Mountain icon,
they'll give me a bunch from
the different libraries.
What's cool about this is that
I can pick any one of these.
Let's choose this one, for example.
Then it'll tell me where it came from.
But then it can also let you
generate basically like the svg or
in this case we can actually just
click and copy the view component.
It'll just populate that for you.
So let's say the designer
wants this because what they
want to do is they want to replace this
icon that we have in the upper left.
They want to replace it
with a mountain instead.
So we know for a fact that this icon
does not exist inside the iconify view.
So what you might be originally tempted
to do is probably just either dropping
the SVG or
a custom component just in that one point.
But as we know with enterprise app,
things bloat really quickly.
Things get reused.
And so what we want to do is
try to as much as possible,
maintain a single source of truth.
That way we can centralize everything.
And more importantly, when changes
are being made or being swapped out,
it's a lot easier to refactor and
more importantly, easier to maintain.
So how might we do this?
So, first thing first, I'll go ahead and
create the component here inside
of the Components folder.
I usually like to create
a dedicated icons folder.
So I'll call this iconmountain View and
then I'll just paste basically
the template that they generated for
us earlier.
So you see here we just have a simple svg.
It has some widths defined
as well as a vue box.
And so
overall it looks fairly straightforward.
So, I'm just go ahead and
actually switch the name here just
to IconMountain to simplify it.
And so as I mentioned before, one of
the things we want to do is centralize
the work that we're doing, because as
we saw when we looked at the icons,
there are just so
many different variations here.
There's a lot of different widths going
on, as well as trying to figure out, okay,
what exactly are we standardizing on?
Especially if you want to start with like,
all icons should start with 20 by 20 size,
for example,
that would be pretty tricky to do,
especially if you're just doing a search
and replace the pattern that I generally
recommend when it comes to this is
known as a vendor wrapper component.
What that essentially does is it allows
us to basically create a wrapper around
the UI library components that we're
using as a way to basically provide
this single source of truth.
The way that would look is that we would
go ahead and create a baseicon component.
And so, I'm gonna use a little
snippet here that I have.
Basically this is a VS code snippet.
And so just in case anyone's not sure what
this is, and it basically allows me to
scaffold the single file component,
basically instantly like that.
>> Speaker 2: How do you do that?
SFC shortcut.
>> Ben Hong: The which one?
>> Speaker 2: Sfc.
>> Ben Hong: Yes.
Cool.
I'm glad you asked about this.
So when you're in VS code,
if you go to your extension.
So, I'll do it the command prompt way.
So command shift P,
then we'll go to our extensions.
Can I just see my extensions?
The way I do it is command KE or X.
But anyways, it's right here.
Sarah Drasner, who used to be on
the VUE core team and now is at Google,
she created this thing
called Vue VS Code snippets,
highly recommended as an extension.
I actually am one of the maintainers.
It has a bunch of different, basically,
snippets for things that you like to use.
So, you can see here that you do.
Okay, let's see.
Vbase ss, right?
So if I come inside here and I'm inside of
my view V base, so you see here there's
like a bunch of different ones you can
choose from and then it'll just kind of.
You can basically customize it.
So the thing though is
that you can install it,
definitely play around with it.
But what I really love about the repo
is that once you look at it and
you find one that you're like, I like that
one, I just want to tweak it a little bit.
VS code snippets are actually fairly
easy to create on your own because then
basically you just copy it.
Be like, I don't use scss, I use less, or
post CSS because I use tailwind, whatever.
Then you don't have to deal with
the boilerplate that comes with it.
Okay, so we know a couple of things.
We know, one, we want to make sure we
migrate all of the icons over Iconify.
And so let's go ahead and do that first.
So let's search so we have this
import that we're going to grab here.
And then we know as well that this is
the general structure that we see,
at least for the Iconify one.
And so what's interesting though is that
you'll see here that in the Iconify icon,
they use icon in order as like the prop
to designate what the name is.
But if you've used other icon libraries
as well, you'll notice that the API for
it is different as well.
That's one of the reasons the vendor
wrapper icon can be very advantageous.
Because for our example with
the MountainIcon, right, so
I inch for the IconMountain, for example.
What we probably want to do then
is we need to do two things.
One, we need to set
what our default is and
then basically what our
override is going to be.
So the default is at this point,
going to be Iconify View,
because this is obviously where
a bulk of our icons are living.
So what I like to do generally in this
situation is we define a prop here,
where we basically have the source
be a type of string, and
then I default it to the main library
that, that we're actually using.
And so in this regard, so
here we can say V if source
is equal to Iconify,
and then we go ahead and
then designate the rest of it.
So we can say, okay,
how do we want this API to look?
Do we want to just call it icon?
Or.
In this case,
I do think what I've seen more normally,
especially when it comes to icon naming,
is just the name itself.
So then we can have a name string here and
we'll go ahead and require it.
And then we can bind this
directly to name as well.
And then we can go ahead.
And then width and
height are also very common as well.
So we'll go ahead and also just go
ahead and designate those as well.
So then default 20 and then we'll
just copy this and make that height.
And here we have the beginnings
of our wrapper icon.
Okay, so of course, the question is, now
we need to deal with this icon mountain.
How do we deal with this?
Now, if we think about this from another
perspective, while it's easy to say,
all right, what we're going to do is
we're going to bring icon mountain here,
down here, and
we're just going to basically, vls.
You could do something as simple
as that if you really wanted to.
However, obviously,
when it comes to scale,
it's not going to work
as well as you think.
So what we ultimately want to do is
provide the user the ability to basically
define their name, and then we are going
to dynamically import that as it goes.
So the way you do that is there is a
helper function in Vue called defineasync
component.
And so, what that's gonna allow you to do
is basically define a path that can be
brought in based on how it's defined.
So what I'm going to do here is then also
I'm going to bring in computed as well,
because we're going to go ahead and make.
First we need to refer to our props.
So, I'm gonna assign it to a variable,
and so
then we're gonna say to our custom icons,
it's gonna be a computed value where
basically, if props source is equal to.
Or basically in this case,
we can say not equal to Iconify,
we could even go that far
to say that at this point,
then we could say basically
return define async component.
And then that takes a function that
returns basically an import statement of
the path.
So in this case it'll be components.
I believe I put it in icons, yep.
And then slash and then I can go ahead and
just do the props.name.view.
And then otherwise we just return null.
Okay, let's see.
So, let's see it's, cannot find
corresponding type declarations.
That is fine for now because this
is dynamically being brought in.
I see what it is.
Hang on, do.
There you go.
Yay for syntax highlighting.
Okay, so now that you have this,
what you can do is Vue has
the built in dynamic component.
So now we can say basically say for
the component, dynamic component.
We're going to make that equivalent
to using the is parameter is prop to
say custom icon.
And so we're going to do now then
is we're going to go ahead and
find that header that we had.
Do, so App.vue header here.
So we have this icon here
right with the target.
We no longer want that.
What we're going to do instead is we're
just going to import our base icon.
And so this will go ahead and
drag import that directly right here.
Although sometimes it does it
incorrectly and as a type.
So that's actually a little
bit frustrating sometimes.
And then I'll say source.
I like to say custom.
And then the name is going
to be icon mountain.
Now that we save, you can see.
Voila, we have our base icon.
This pattern is incredibly effective for
essentially helping you
centralize these things.
I won't go through the process right now
of doing all the replace of the base icon.
I'll do that later when
we're doing exercises.
This is the concept of the vendor wrapper.
Now the other technique that I do want
to mention here with the base icon is.
Let me cue the slide here.
It's known as the v-bind/v-on syntax.
So here typically you would have like.
Again, let's say we wanted to
customize the width to like 30 and
then the height also to 30.
You notice here one it's broken because
partially because on the base icon
I did not define the various
props on here directly.
So I'll go ahead and
just copy this over real quick just so
we can get rid of that error string
is not assignable to number.
All right, we'll deal with that later.
So, what you can do actually is that,
in the event that you wanted
to make this dynamic, right?
So, let's go ahead and say, for example,
that we have a custom source and
it was make this a ref real quick,
just to demonstrate this.
And then we'll call this font awesome.
And then we had a const
Custom name equals ref.
And we'll call this Upside Down Mountain.
And then we had const custom width,
which is a ref of, let's say 40.
Then we have our custom height.
So one way you could define this is
you could go ahead and come in and
then V bind each one
of these individually.
So this should look familiar to most
people, this one custom height,
you could do it like this.
However, a lot of times when we're
working with dynamic components,
you can't always control
what attributes are being.
If you're swapping out components,
you're gonna be swapping out different
properties, different events.
And so if you're hard coding them like
this, you're going to have basically extra
code being passed to your
components that don't need to be.
And so what you can do instead is this
can all actually be shortcutted to this
vbind syntax,
where you basically have an object.
And this is where the thing that we
see here would be equivalent to this.
And then what's nice about this is you
can take this one step further in that if
we just assume, again,
let's just say props.
Let's see.
That's fine.
Props object.
And then you just
basically did the source,
the name and
then the width and the height.
Here, again, assuming this width and
height, this whole thing can be
swapped down into just props object.
And this is important.
The reason I wanted to go over this is
because this is going to be very common as
we go through the rest of the patterns,
where we're going to be basically doing
vbind on dynamic attributes where
we don't know what's being passed.
And so we basically need VUE to just
spread it out on the component and
we decide what's going on.
I won't demonstrate this explicitly,
but in the event,
you have multiple events as well,
like mousedown, key up, whatnot,
there's an equivalent for,
call it the events object, right?
Where you can just write an object that
pairs your events to whatever you want of
functions you want to assign them to.
So, both these are basically what they
call the v-bind/v-on object syntax.